##abstract
Drowsy driving is one of the major causes behind fatal road accidents. One of 
the recent studies shows that one out of five road accidents are caused by 
drowsy driving which is roughly around 21% of road accidents. Real-time driver 
drowsiness detection system for driving safety is based on computer vision 
techniques, the driver’s face is located from a colour video captured in a car. 
Then, face detection is employed to locate the regions of the driver’s eyes, 
which are used as the templates for eye tracking in subsequent frames. Finally, 
the tracked eye’s images are used for drowsiness detection in order to generate 
warning alarms. The proposed approach has three phases: Face, Eye detection 
and drowsiness detection. The role of image processing is to recognize the face 
of the driver and then extracts the image of the eyes of the driver for detection 
of drowsiness. If the eyes are closed for a predefined period of time the eyes of 
the driver will be considered closed and hence an alarm will be started to alert 
the driver. So, in the above approach driver will get alerted and it will help to 
reduce the percent of accidents caused due to drowsiness.

##problem definition
Fatigue is a safety problem that has not yet been deeply tackled by any 
country in the world mainly because of its nature. Fatigue, in general, is
very difficult to measure or observe unlike alcohol and drugs, which have
clear key indicators and tests that are available easily. Probably, the best
solutions to this problem are awareness about fatigue-related accidents
and promoting drivers to admit fatigue when needed. The former is hard
and much more expensive to achieve, and the latter is not possible without 
the former as driving for long hours is very lucrative.

##objective of project
The objective of this intermediate Python project is to build a drowsiness detection 
system that will detect that a person’s eyes are closed for a few seconds. This 
system will alert the driver when drowsiness is detected. Drowsiness detection is a 
safety technology that can prevent accidents that are caused by drivers who fell 
asleep while driving.

##limitations
limitation to using subjective ratings is that the self-introspection alerts the driver, 
thereby reducing their drowsiness level. In addition, it is difficult to obtain 
drowsiness feedback from a driver in a real driving situation. Therefore, while 
subjective ratings are useful in determining drowsiness in a simulated 
environment, the remaining measures like vehicle lane monitoring, steering wheel 
alignment may be better suited for the detection of drowsiness in a real 
environment.
